Add blog post for sprint 79 (#260)
openSUSE/obs-landing: _posts/development/2020-06-10-events-to-notifications.md

---
layout: post
title: From showing what happend, to showing what matters.
category: development
---

It's time again to talk about the notifications. On our journey to a full-fledged notification system,

> we put our emphasis on the content of the notifications itself and keept improving

Reviewer: ```suggestion
we put our emphasis on the content of the notifications itself and kept improving
```

reflected, by the badge. The avatars of users and groups will tell you, who else is involved since the
last time you read the notification.
<img src="/images/posts/sprint-report-79/notification_avatars_and_state.png" alt="Notification avatars and state"/>

For those who wonder where the review wanted notifications remain. This is now unified with the request
notifications. By showing the latest state, it will reveal when a review is need by you or someone else.

On the design side of things, there were several improvements that rounds out existing components and
and increases the responsiveness.
The counters that previously got introduced on the projects filter are now shown on all remaining
filter selectors, giving you a hint at first glance, which kind of notifications are pending.

<img src="/images/posts/sprint-report-79/notification_filter_counter.png" alt="Notification filter counter"/>

Marking a notification as read won't cause full page reload's from now on. We only refresh the parts that needs
to be refreshed. This saves unnecessary loading times and leads to a better overall experience while scrolling
through the items.

> Mobile devices benfit from a sticky filter section. No need to always scroll back to the top of the page

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mobile devices benefit from a sticky filter section. No need to always scroll back to the top of the page
```

> in order to apply another filter. The filter section will simply follow, while strolling through your notifications.

Reviewer: `scrolling` or `strolling` like in [stroll](https://www.dictionary.com/browse/strolling)?

Author: `strolling` is intended in this case :)

Reviewer: Alright :+1: !

---
layout: post
title: From showing what happend, to showing what matters.
category: development
---

It's time again to talk about the notifications. On our journey to a full-fledged notification system,
we put our emphasis on the content of the notifications itself and keept improving
several UI parts to increase productivity and user experience.

> Until now, a notification just reflects the occurrence of an event in which the notified user is involved.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Until now, a notification just reflects the occurrence of an event in which you are involved.
```

This can be a response to a comment, a open request that got accepted or a review that

> is wanted from you. The problem here, do you still care about the state of your request from

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
is wanted from you. The problem with showing a chronological list of events, do you still care about the state of your request from
```

one week ago, that meanwhile changed four times?
Most likely not, that is why we worked hard to move from an event based flow, to an actual notification
system that only shows what really matters.
Instead of producing new notifications records for every single event, we keep notifications
related to a certain notifiable(can be a comment or request) up-to-date. It will always reflect
the current state, till the user confirms the acknowledgement by marking it as read.

> Badges are indicating the current state of the associated request. A state change of the request will be

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Badges are indicating the current state (e.g. new, superseded or accepted etc.) of the associated request. A state change of the request will be
```

reflected, by the badge. The avatars of users and groups will tell you, who else is involved since the

> last time you read the notification.

Reviewer 2: You should mention the different review bades here

<img src="/images/posts/sprint-report-79/notification_avatars_and_state.png" alt="Notification avatars and state"/>

> For those who wonder where the review wanted notifications remain. This is now unified with the request

Reviewer 2: I' pretty sure no one wonders about this :wink: 

I think you can just work this in to the paragraph above...

notifications. By showing the latest state, it will reveal when a review is need by you or someone else.

> On the UI side of things, there were several improvements that rounds out existing components and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On the design side of things, there were several improvements that rounds out existing components and
```

and increases the responsiveness.
The counters that previously got introduced on the projects filter are now shown on all remaining
filter selectors, giving you a hint at first glance, which kind of notifications are pending.

<img src="/images/posts/sprint-report-79/notification_filter_counter.png" alt="Notification filter counter"/>

Marking a notification as read won't cause full page reload's from now on. We only refresh the parts that needs
to be refreshed. This saves unnecessary loading times and leads to a better overall experience while scrolling
through the items.

Mobile devices benfit from a sticky filter section. No need to always scroll back to the top of the page

> in order to apply another filter. The filter section will simply follow, while strolling through your notifications.

Reviewer 2: Both the round trip and the sticky filter are good for smaller viewports. I wouldn't say "Mobile", maybe something like `smaller screen sizes`. 

Also, you forgot about the nice change from @quatran about displaying the filtered project name.

Author: ah yes I missed that
